Now, we are talking about worldly desires and worldly desires may entice us to do wrong for selfish advantage.
An expression of this selfishness is the worldly desire of instant gratification.
Our theme today is therefore, reject the desire of instant gratification.
We will answer two questions.
Why is instant gratification a problem?
And how does God undeserved kindness help us to resist instant gratification?
To our first question, why is instant gratification a problem?
What is instant gratification?
Now, instant or immediate gratification means exchanging a future benefit
in order to obtain a less rewarding but more immediate benefit.
A prominent example is Esau.
He was willing to trade his birthright with its future blessings for a quick meal.
While this example shows that the desire of immediate gratification has always existed,
today it's more of a problem, why?
Because technology and social media with the world at our fingertips makes it harder to delay gratification,
everything is possible and without rating.
For instance, almost all advertisements contain offers for paying later or loan financing.
So why wait and save before buying?
Sadly, many ignore the warning in Proverbs 22 verse 7 and experience the consequences of being a slave to the lender.
Or another example.
Think of the effect instant gratification can have on relationships.
If we are upset with somebody, it might us make feel good to send an angry text message.
However, we know that first taking the time to examine our feelings, the feelings of the other,
and followed then by a face-to-face communication is the better and more successful course,
although more time consuming.
A third example.
Today you can easily find a marriage partner by using the internet.
By doing this, creating instant gratification.
Yet statistics reveal the short lifespan of those relationships.
Jehovah on the other hand highlights the value of patience.
It takes time to get to know ourselves, to get to know the prospective partner,
and to prepare a healthy relationship.
This makes a successful marriage much more likely, resulting in lasting benefits.
These were just a few examples of the attitude that has shaped our modern world.
Yes, we live in a society that is governed by greed with its bad consequences.
That brings us to our second question, how does God's undeserved kindness help us to resist instant gratification?
Let us please open to our text for today.
This is Titus chapter 2 to find out why do we talk about God's undeserved kindness?
Let us read here Titus chapter 2 beginning with verse 11.
There we read, for the undeserved kindness of God has been manifested, bringing salvation to all sorts of people.
And now our days text comes, it, the undeserved kindness of God,
trains us to reject ungodliness and worldly desires.
Did you notice what helps us to reject worldly desire?
It is, according to verse 11, God's undeserved kindness.
Yet what exactly is God's undeserved kindness?
And how does it help us to reject the desire of instant gratification?
Now the world translated here with undeserved kindness conveys the thought of a free gift,
of something that is unearned and unmerited.
This gift is expressed in various ways.
And here in verse 11 Paul refers to the greatest expression of this godly undeserved kindness,
the ransom sacrifice of Jesus.
Jehovah forgives us our sins which opens the door to many other wonderful blessings, for example.
We can enjoy a wonderful close relationship with Jehovah.
This good relationship will enable us to resist pressure.
How?
Let us illustrate this by means of a situation in David's life.
For quite some time David had to flee from Saul.
Now if we turn to 1 Samuel chapter 24, we see that David was hiding in the cave.
And it was this cave that King Saul entered to rest.
Would David now give in to the temptation and to kill Saul and to end the time of being in the wilderness,
and now finally reign as King?
Let us read here in 1 Samuel 24 verse 4,
and see how David's man encouraged him to find instant gratification.
Here in verse 4 we read, David's man said to him,
this is the day on which Jehovah is saying to you,
look I'm giving your enemy into your hand,
and you can do to him whatever seems good to you.
So what would David do?
We know that David resisted the temptation.
But why?
Let's look in verse 6.
Here we read,
he, David said to his man, it is unthinkable from Jehovah's standpoint
that I should do such a thing to my Lord, the anointed of Jehovah,
by lifting my hand against him for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
Jehovah, David enjoyed a close relationship with Jehovah.
He knew God's thinking and he was able to apply Godly principles.
The many prayers recorded in the Bible show us that David put all his trust on Jehovah.
This made him read, he chose delayed gratification.
Now how are we equipped to resist the worldly desire of instant gratification?
Remember, if we approach our close friend Jehovah,
according to Philippians 4 verse 6 and 7 in prayer,
then his peace will guard our heart.
And then we further prepare our hearts by our regular studies.
They help us to get acquainted with Jehovah's principles.
So then if we want something instantly,
at a price that could endanger our good priorities in our life,
then our close relationship with Jehovah helps us to choose the long term benefit
over instant gratification.
A second way, how the undeserved kindness of God helps us to resist instant gratification
is looking into the future and seeing the bigger picture.
This is what Jesus did.
In Hebrews 12 verse 2, the Apostle Paul described Jesus' future,
the joy that was set before him.
Jesus saw his future in heaven,
and he did not give in to create immediate relief.
Take the example when Satan offered to him all the kingdoms.
Jesus understood the bigger picture.
He understood his role in God's purpose,
and this allowed him to resist the temptation
and to not go for the immediate benefit, but resist the offer.
So I'll be not doing the same.
We visualise ourselves being in Jehovah's New World.
Well, coming loved ones, teaching them, keeping this conviction,
this hope alive helps us to resist the desire of instant gratification
and to wait for the long term benefit.
So in conclusion,
resisting the desire of instant gratification helps us to make wise decisions
when it comes to material pursuits or relationships.
Jehovah's undeserved kindness and form of a close relationship helps us
to prepare our heart today.
And the gift of our wonderful whole helps us to see ourselves in the future,
with all the benefits that are outweigh by far instant gratification.